https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r37RoPQBXNU&t=38s
Okay. Retrieval augmented generation. We are looking at what are the best practices. How do we make applications which can answer user queries in real time with lot of groundedness using this technique. So let me start with the agenda. Today we will understand what is RAG, vector indexing, document retrieval and we will have some question answers at the end. So the last 15 minutes if you have any questions do let me know. Okay. Icebreaker question. What is a large language model? Can anyone describe on the chat what is a large language model? How would you describe a large language model in one? Yeah, huge calculators. Okay. A model that predicts the next word given a prefix trained over text data. So, Ash, I think you hit the nail on the head. This is a very good description of a large language model. A neural network that is trained to predict the next token of an input sequence is how I would define a large language model. An example of this is I am going to make them an offer. And if you pass this into a large language model, you are likely going to get the completion of I am going to make them an offer. They can not refuse. Okay. And this is happening because the large language model has gone through a lot of text which is freely available online. Then there has been some curation in that text. And finally after training the model can predict what is the next token of an input sequence. So I am going to make an offer. I am going to make an offer that they cannot refuse. Okay. So let is see how the large language model is actually doing this. The idea is to understand the human language so that it can start answering your queries effectively. Okay. So this is a popular quote from B.R. Ambedkar which is an idea needs propagation as much as a plant needs dash. Let is say we pass it into a large language model and we say that predict the next token of this word. So some of you might think of as much as a plant needs water, as much as a plant needs sunlight, as much as a plant needs nutrition. But how does a large language model predict the next token? Let is see. So you take the words of the input sentence and you break them into pieces. These pieces, each piece is known as a token where every token describes a concept. For example, an one concept, idea, another concept, needs another concept. Propagate one concept, shun is a separate concept. As much as a plant needs so and so. So if I say institution, Einsteinization, if I say summarization, the suffix shun says what is happening before it. Similarly, if I say dancing, singing, planting, watering, the ing suffix in tells you that the action before it is actually happening. So, watering means you are pouring water. Dancing means the dance is being performed. As humans, this is also how we how we listen to language, right? When I am talking to you, you are able to break my continuous sentence into discrete tokens and then you are able to process them individually. So this is also what the large language model does using an algorithm called bite pair encoding. I will just share a link with you here. You can check it out. This is in real time. You can see tokenization. Okay. But this is at the end of the session. After that you can check this out. Okay. So the input token is split into words and then we convert these words into vectors. So this is where the actual AI starts. Until now we have just taken a string and broken into words using an algorithm which is very exact. Now we take those tokens and then we convert them into something called vectors. What are vectors? The way to imagine vectors is you have every word being put in an n dimensional space. So why think of a three-dimensional space? Things which are close to me are similar to me. So water, sea, ocean, drinking, these might all be close to each other. Words with similar meaning are clustered together. Plant, tree, seed, all of these would be clustered close to each other. Okay, plant idea are also close to each other. So if we separate out these words then they are going to end up forming clusters where language models are able to understand the meaning of every sentence. Okay, this is useful to know. None of this is essential to know as an engineer, but all of this stuff that we just went through is good to know. All right. Vectors encapsulate the meaning of words and this is good. Okay. So, let us now look at the real problem. Retrieval augmented generation. This is where things start. All right. Today. What is retrieval augmented generation? The basic idea in retrieval augmented generation is to tell a large language model that these are the relevant documents or this is the relevant context for any input user query. If you have a user query which is asking your application give me an answer for the tax laws from 2006 to 2007 then your large language model can directly answer that query. But it would be much better if you could derive the context, if you could retrieve the context and give it to the large language model to give a better response. Okay, is everyone on the same page? Just give me a thumbs up if this is making sense. If you understand the definition of retrieval augmented generation. Okay, amazing. So at this point we have a high level understanding of how a large language model works and we know the definition of retrieval augmented generation. Let us now start with the actual engineering side. Okay. Normally you have user queries coming to your system. The system can directly forward them to a large language model and the large language model can try to answer them. But if they are user specific queries or company specific queries like give me the order number 1 2 3 then the large language model does not have the relevant context required to answer this query. So order number 1 2 3 is known only by if it is Amazon. If the system here is Amazon then only Amazon has relevant details for order number 1 2 3. OpenAI does not. And so when it gets this query give me details around order 1 2 3 it is likely going to hallucinate because the large language models are trained to be helpful. So even if they do not know the answer they try to answer it. And if they do not answer it if they get away from hallucination still the answer is poor useless. Right, the LLM is going to say I do not know where your order is. So this would be a bad system. What retrieval augmented generation does is basically retrieve the right kind of context from your company database. Okay. So it says where is their order number 1 2 3 is passed in. You get that along with the current status of the order which is in transit. And then you pass that to the large language model which says oh okay I can see clearly that order number 1 2 3 is in transit. I can read the JSON and now I can give you a nice response which can be read by a user. Okay, this is the main benefit of any. How would you convert these into embeddings? A simple way to do it is to just take the document, the entire document, convert that into a single embedding and put it in the vector database. Do you think that is the right approach? Yeah. So Bavia is right, Chinaya is right. Chunking is a good idea. Okay. So let us say you have a large file and it is something like this. So a PDF document can have tables, it can have points, it can have images, it can have the header here. Okay, so the header is actually much more important than the than some of the stuff over here, right? And then continued on page 16 actually makes no sense. So the document has small pieces which have different weightage. That is one thing. All those pieces have different formats. Sometimes you have a table, you have pointers. So taking that into consideration, what we should do ideally is look at some of the standard documents that you have and try to find the format of those documents before you chunk them. Okay? So if you have a really large document, you want to parse it. You want to pass the different items in the document and if it is very large then you want to chunk it into pieces and and then you can chunk the document. Okay. So each image becomes one chunk. The footer itself becomes a chunk. The header becomes a chunk and then text paragraphs can also become chunks. Okay. Question is is chunking done is it based on size or is it done semantically? What do you think? Would you prefer having semantic chunks or size based chunks? Okay, the reality size based chunks are almost entirely useless. If I say that these are the number of words or these are the number of sentences that should be there in one chunk, it is useless. So instead, what you want to do is you want to do semantic chunking. However, semantic chunking is really slow. So in practice, very few applications that I have seen have ever used semantic chunking. Actually zero is what I have seen for a PC. They use semantic chunking. So if you are going to chunk, you sit down with a subject matter expert or you go through 20 or 30 documents and you say, Okay, this is the format of the document. This is how I can chunk it. So you write your own custom chunker. Very often you write your own custom document parser also. This part is usually custom for now. This part is also custom. Okay, you take those chunks. Each and every chunk is embedded into a single vector. Remember that vectors are these clusters and the relevant documents are picked up. Okay. And here is a practical tip. This is something you can start doing tomorrow itself, day after tomorrow, Monday. When you are building a RAG pipeline or any AI system, manually go through 20 or 30 exemplars, examples, you know, traces and sit down with a domain expert. So in some cases you will be able to do this yourself but in some cases the application is for customer support executives or the application is for delivery agents. You want to sit down with people who are doing this right now manually and ask them hey how would you chunk this document? How would you weight this chunk of the document? Is there any metadata that I should store with the chunk of the document? And the benefit of this is when you build an application for someone, they are able to tell you what kind of prompting or what kind of test cases you should consider. So this is an important part of making your system reliable and useful. So you can do this with RAG applications also. When you are indexing the documents, when you are going through this pipeline, sit down with a domain expert and see how they would pass this document and chunk. Embedding is up to you as an engineer. I mean, you are going to use some sort of an encoder library here, but these two parts is where we would like to have someone who is a subject matter expert or a domain expert. Okay, so great. This is the offline side of RAG. Right now you know how to index the documents whether they are PDFs or not in your company into a vector database. Let us look at the retrieval side. What happens in real time? What happens when users are querying your system? So the first part is reranking. This is something that I think the question was just asked now. So going back when you have a user query the system tries to pull relevant data from the vector database. In some cases this is easy. All you have to do is pull up the relevant chunks from the vector database and give it to the large language model. But in some cases this is difficult. Okay. And let me take a case where this is difficult. Suggest good quality laptops in the range of 500 dollars to 1000 dollars. This is the user query. Let us say you are writing a customer support bot for Amazon or a search bot for Amazon and you get the user query of give me laptops in the range of 500 dollars to 1000 dollars. Now you have two documents in your vector database. One is high performance gaming laptops available for 2500 dollars. This is one document. And budget friendly laptop models starting at 550 dollars. This is another document. So which one should it pick? Document one or document two? Yeah. Document two. Yeah, it should pick up document 2. It should. But there is no guarantee. Why? Because you are saying suggest good quality laptops in the 500 dollars to 1000 dollars range. The thing is good quality is also something which is a part of your query. And high performance and good quality seem to be similar. So it is possible that some of the chunks will be picked up from this document and some of the chunks will be picked up from this document. So out of the let us say five chunks that you pick up maybe one or two are useless which is a big issue. It is not just useless. You are actually sending it to the LLM and the LLM is going to generate its response based on some of the irrelevant chunks. So this becomes a problem and how do you avoid it? How do you not pick up chunks from irrelevant documents? The idea is you can try to rewrite the query. Okay. So I am sorry we do not try to rewrite the query. That is another technique. But what there is another thing that you can do before rewriting and that is each and every one are going to be scored against the user query. The top five will be picked up and sent to the large language model. Okay. Does this make sense? Does this make sense as to why reranking is useful? Yeah. Okay. So, it keeps token level similarity between objects. Okay. I know it is a lot of information to process, but yes, we will be taking questions in 15 minutes, so that is good. The concept is hey you can use an encoder to not just retrieve relevant chunks but actually retrieve the best chunks. Okay. So the second technique this is again when a user is sending in their input query query rewriting. Suggest good gifts for a birthday. This is what the user is asking also how many flowers can I request in one delivery. The user gives us a query which has two sentences in it and those sentences are completely different from each other. There is nothing about the first sentence which adds value to the second sentence. Okay. Suggest good gifts for a birthday. That is one thing I need to do. And also how many flowers can I request in one delivery? That is a completely separate thing. Although they are both going to the same application which is let us say a flower delivery application. So now what can we do? We can try to answer this query directly. We pass this to a vector database. It gives you the relevant chunks. You pass it in to a large language model get response. But again the same problem comes where if you try to retrieve the top five chunks here from the previous query suggest good gifts for a birthday, how many flowers can I request in one delivery? Maybe one chunk has gift ideas and four chunks have flower limit problems. Okay. So now the last language model has to come up with good gift ideas based on just one chunk which is a problem. A good idea here is to actually split the incoming query into multiple queries. If you notice that the incoming query has multiple subqueries inside it then you can split them query them in parallel in the vector database. Get those chunks, query the large language model in parallel, get that, combine the responses, send it back to the user, and this is a much better user experience. Okay, so this is called query rewriting. You are rewriting the query for the user. You expand it through a small language model, query one, query two, query three, and then you send that to the large language model, all three queries. Before this, you are going to retrieve the relevant document chunks and then you are going to answer the user the synthesized answer. Okay. Um query rewriting is slow. It takes more hops, more tokens. It is basically more expensive. So you want to do this in certain queries. So compare tax laws for remote workers in USA for the year 2025 to 2026. Split this into two. USA tax laws 2025, USA tax laws 2026. Synthesize. Is this making sense? I take a couple of questions here. Yes. So, please go ahead. Yes. I I was just wondering about that. Um you mentioned that when things get chunked, there is sort of a leader or some kind of a chunk group leader. How does that how is that determined? So, the vector database has different algorithms to choose the leader. It is usually the most common one is something called hierarchical navigable small worlds HNSW. You can check it out. But the idea is that if if one of these vectors has relations or or is close to quite a few of them then that becomes a leader. So it gets promoted up one level. And this is based on math and data. So there is nothing special about any of the leaders. Neither are they chosen manually. It is through an algorithm called hierarchical navigable small world. Spotify uses another algorithm called annoy. Some others use other algorithms inverted file. Yeah, depends on the. Something called a summarizer. So, if you have a really long user query, then you can also summarize that. But that is used rarely. That is just a technique. Expander is used a lot more often. The same query is broken into pieces. Awesome. Thank you. Thank you. That is a good question. In fact we blazed through most of the content. Thank you everyone. I will take questions now if you have I see that there are quite a few questions. Siddh please go ahead. Yeah. So basically like how encoders score our chunks and how it is different from like vector when we search particular query to vector database right. Yeah. They they will also pick top five or top 20 vectors sorry chunks and like how in like how like how it is. Uh that is a good question. I am getting the fact is that you know vector databases are also comparing amongst the query and the document and so is this. So what is the major difference? Is that what you are asking? Yes. Yes. So look a document can be converted into a vector first and the query can be converted into a vector first and then they can be compared based on cosine similarity. Okay, this scales very well to millions of documents. But there is a problem. The problem is that token level similarity is not taken into consideration. 500 and 550 are close to each other but in terms of vectors token level similarity smoothened out. So 500 and 550 are going to be extremely similar. 450 is also extremely similar. So the idea is then let us not convert these into vectors. Let us look at 550 this word and compare it with 500 and 1000. We want to do a almost token to token comparison. This is something called an attention operation and a cross encoder which is here is performing it. It is comparing every single token of your input query with the document tokens and so then it can find accurate similarity. If I take your entire document and compress it into a single token into a single vector then I really cannot compare. Well, is that making sense? Yeah. So you are able to extract out the information of the document, convert those into tokens and vectors individually and then compare token by token. Okay. Thank you. Yeah, expected performance here is better. Great. Shant, yes, please go ahead. Uh so Gaurav is it possible to execute without a vector database like especially in large corporation where we have SQL and NoSQL databases and we already know what kind of answers to be given for the user we do not need like that semantic mapping right so in those scenarios what kind of architecture would you suggest for retrieval especially. Um if your data sources are tagged or if your data sources are easy to query Then you can also expose each data source like a tool like a search tool to search. And there is something called agentic RAG where instead of having your server directly query a vector database, you instead create an agent and the agent chooses which data source to query. Got it. Yeah. Okay. That is something you can try. But if you have a well-defined path, if you know that this is where the data is going to be stored, it is sometimes good to make that path concrete saying that you can only query this data source. So that also helps and then that does that tokenize also or like does it expose the customer data or is there a separate layer to it? Anything that you send to the large language model is going to be by the large language model tokenized, vectorized and read. But there are legal promises that the large language model makes to enterprises that I am not going to train on your data. I am not going to, you know, use your data. So in that sense, you are safe. Great. Okay. Thank you. Great. PJ, yes, please go ahead. Yeah. So my doubt was so first thing is the the reranker which you mentioned right so that will not do just cosine only it will do more than that that is why it is more accurate or it is doing something called you might have heard of the attention mechanism right. So let me go back I skipped this on purpose because it would have taken too long but there there is something called there is something called attention where you have every word compared with nearby words and so if I say plant it is impossible to tell whether I mean the plant which needs sunlight or the textile plant or she planted her foot down the three different meanings for the same word. The way I figure out the internal meaning of the word this ambiguous word which is an ambiguous vector is by looking at nearby words, sunlight, textile and foot and adding that performing the attention operation to disambiguate this vector. Similarly, a similar operation of attention is performed when you are doing reranking. So you are taking all of the tokens in the user query, you are taking the tokens in the document and then you are comparing them with each other and seeing which ones are having high similarity. You are contextualizing it also. The same point. Okay, got it. The second thing I had in mind was look, all this sounds good for for a small data set and things like that, right? Like how does this get solved at scale? Example, you have one billion embeddings. Okay. Yeah. One billion embeddings. Hopefully you are not going to search amongst all of them for your user query. One billion embeddings is like Google scale just to let you know. Right. So now at that scale will you just you know ideally will you just do a semantic or will you do some something like a hybrid wherein you take you do your lexical and then inside that lexical you will do some semantic or like like how do you solve like how do we solve at scale? Yeah. So if you meet 1 billion embeddings in the same vector in the same vector database then congratulations you know it is time to really get that funding but yes engineering is what you are looking at. One of the things is text search is one thing you also want to split your vector database data into multiple pieces. Then these kind of queries will be managed by this one. Once you chunk those. Oh, yeah. Once you chunk it, yeah, it becomes tens of thousands, but tens of thousands is fine. Okay. All right. Got it. Thank you. Thanks, Shri. Yes, please go ahead. Hi, Gaurav. So this chunking strategies and everything applies only in the case of unstructured data sources like PDFs or such stuff right and let us say if you want to build a RAG on databases you do not need chunking right. Um no it is not only on unstructured data so for example in PDFs it is especially useful but if you have a table and the table is like really large so if you have the table broken into chunks. Although it is structured and although you have them have a really long table of let us say 10,000 rows, you want to split it into chunks of 100 each. Each of those tables the chunks should have the metadata. So the column headers and also description of what every column means. So the way you create the chunk is not just by splitting it but once you split it, you then try to bring back some of the lost data into the chunk. So it is to answer your query in short it is not always unstructured data. Structured data can also benefit from chunking and yes it is pretty much it. Okay. Girish would you like to go next. Yeah maybe it is a question I have like when you say you are having this vector databases right I have had a chance to work with time series databases and all that also we have but we say that you cannot put unbounded values in a dimension. How does it work in vector DB? You can have bounded dimensions unbounded and bounded values within a dimension unbounded one thing. And how do you query this database? Is it like SQL or you have some language or is it like natural language querying or how does it work? Uh the second answer first the query is very similar to SQL where you have an input query and the vector database's job is to fetch you the most close cosine similarity wise close documents. It is not 100 percent accurate because it uses something called clusters. So it is possible that your query lands here and it picks up address and the address document and the delivery document. But it should have also picked up customer. It is on the edge but it did not the nearest documents are not picked up. That is possible. So it is not a very accurate like 100 percent accurate database. That is one thing. This first question that you had is do you have unbounded data? These vectors are like an array of n numbers. Okay. So each of those numbers are like a feature. So if if these were people then Gaurav would be okay a person aged in their 30s with certain weight so that is another number this is their height that is another number maybe they stay here that could be a number also so if you are able to compress the two dimensions into a single one and so you would have this object being described by a bunch of numbers and those numbers are then the way to think of it is it is like coordinates in a space. People similar to Gaurav will have a similar age, similar height, similar weight, similar place to stay. So they are all going to stay close to Gaurav. And now if I am going to show Gaurav an ad and it is successful, I can use the same ad to show to everybody else. So that becomes a cluster, a useful cluster. So it is not about unbounded or bounded data. The data that is the data is describing the object itself. Yeah. Okay. Good stuff. Yes, we had a question earlier. Please go ahead. What is in general difference between a RAG and like MCP like when would you use one and and the other? So MCP is a way in which tools can be exposed. About subquerying and we have gotten the response for each of the subquery in parallel. So at the end how would the final response be synthesized? Will all the response be passed again through the LLM or how does that work? Typically there is you can just add them together. So it is like text add but you can also pass it through a small language model saying that here are the three responses I got please synthesize them. So it depends on what you want. Do you want the answers to be like piece by piece or do you want them all synthesized together? So in case if the subqueries are like not completely opposite and interdependent it would make sense to pass them through an SLM right? It would be even if they are not dependent on each other. The SLM is expected to look at those queries and say, Oh, okay. I get what you are trying to do. The SLM also has something called a system prompt, right? So, you are going to tell the SLM, I want these to be synthesized together. Just make sure that you do not mess up the answers, put them together. So, the SLM then does that. Okay. Got it. Thanks. Right. Priya Dashani, please go ahead. Hey, so how do you handle PDF files which have a lot of tabular data and pictures? Oh, PDF files which have a lot of tabular data and pictures. Pictures you need to find some sort of an encoder which is a multimodal encoder. So Gemini most of the multimodal encoders I mean there are quite a few multimodal encoders right now. Gemini is a pretty good one. Another way you can try to do that is take the image and just work with the caption if there are captions. And another way to do it that I have noticed is you take the image, you pass that to a image to text encoder and then you try to chunk that text. But multimodal encoders are the best if you have a lot of images. As for tabular data, there are some best practices. You want to split the table data into pieces depending on how large it is. So if you have hundreds of rows then and you want to chunk the tables then every chunk should store the metadata. So the headers at least of the table and apart from that I mean if you want to store some of the summary like previously this is what has happened and later this is what is happening that is also something you can store in every chunk. Okay. Yeah makes sense also. Yeah also like also in these RAG systems the LLMs are only used for generate a response. So like we can use a smaller language like which can work. Uh hi. Two questions. First, how do we handle negative queries as in let is say I am querying with Amazon and I want to ask that I want 32 GB RAM gaming PCs apart from Intel architecture. And the second question is how do we efficiently manage chat history in case of chatbots? Nathan, can you repeat your query? What about Amazon? Sorry. Uh let is say I have a chatbot on Amazon that is I ask him to show me the gaming PC with 32 GB RAM apart from Intel chips. So I want results. Yeah, I want results that exclude the Intel chip species. Okay. Okay. So, you say excluding the Intel chips get me all the results. That is your query. Yeah. Okay. And how is the large language model going to figure out that hey, I need to exclude things? Yes. Yeah. So, there this is a major problem with large language models when you give a not query like do not do this. Give me everything except this. So that is a problem with RAG. That is a problem basically with large language models themselves. You look at the query reranker, right? The reranker here this actually helps you avoid it. Not queries are answered better with with a cross encoder. So you have actually come up with one important use case. I missed this for query reranking. If I say suggest good laptops in the range of 500 dollars to 1000 dollars or suggest good quality laptops excluding Intel laptops. So what ends up happening is the not or the excluding gets smoothed out. But if I have token to token comparison this is less likely. So doing the reranking is an essential step. If you have not queries, the other thing you can do is instead of taking things in a in a text format, maybe you can take a form and say which which laptops do you want, but that is manual and that is tedious. To help with not queries, use encoder, use reranker. Got it. But are they performance oriented? Are they performance? I am sorry. As in does it surely give us a confidence that it will not show? No, of course not. Okay, everyone, you cannot guarantee that the LLM is going to give you great answers. All you can do is try to evaluate it and minimize the rate of error. There are still going to be some queries which are really difficult to answer for an LLM because they are difficult to answer for a human also. Yeah, second question was how do I manage issue in case of chat bots like I was working with this project so on the very brute force approach I tried to hardcode it to let is say I am using 10 user turns as an history ender the response to 10 would be stored somehow in the prompt so increasing the prompt every time the user queries has increased latency to a significant level after the chat increases. Okay, okay so your user prompt is getting larger and larger is that the problem? Yes, that is the problem also. It has two limitations like the token usage increases significantly also the latency increases. Yeah, because I think based on every use case you are trying to change the you are basically adding a rule. Do this. Yes. Yeah. Okay. What you are trying to do is is both clever and not yet there. You are doing something called manual hill climbing which is you see that this does not work. So you say you know never do this again and then you poke something into the space and either other problems come up right here or the other problems are still there. So what you want to do to really avoid this is two approaches. One think about a large language model as a judge which is going to catch errors quickly. If the answer is not relevant, if the answer is not grounded with in the documents that you send, then it is going to flag it. Automated evals, this is what it is. Second one is sit down with the subject matter expert and ask them to write the system prompt with you. You will see that the prompt will get a lot better. If the subject matter expert is the CEO of your company in a startup or a PM who is managing the product, sit down with them and ask them for some help. You need this otherwise user queries are not going to be answered well. The AFL statements that you are trying to do right now is a matter of research eval people are trying to automatically improve the prompt the system prompt using something called hill climbing but it is not yet there. Recently I read an article from I think Langchain or Anthropic I think it was Langchain where they are trying to do hill climbing. It is all theory. It is not practice. Uh there is a point in my question set I am asking whether how to manage the user history with the conversational AI bot. So what sometimes happens is let is say we are chatting with the board completely and how can I efficiently manage the issue there is the context of the chat. Yeah. Don't get worried about these things it is like OpenAI saying AGI is coming so it is always good. Yeah, got it thank you. For marketing yeah thanks Pramod, Shri Shivani please go ahead. Gaurav previously you were saying that chunking is also helpful on the databases right? So let is say I have multiple tables of patient data one with regular patient information and the other one let is say about the record of patients so how do you think I can do this chunking on that do I have to is it based on the ailments of different patients or do I have to manually do for all the patients or is there some other libraries that I can use to automate it. So if you are going to directly pull data from your database then what you want to do is your RAG application basically needs to fire SQL queries now so and if you wanted to actually fire SQL queries dynamically then you needed to construct those SQL queries how does it do that metadata of the tables has to be clear it has to be something that it can pass to a large language model the large language model says hey this is Right. Got you. Thank you. We cleared a nuance also. That is good. Sanja, please go ahead. There is OnePlus 7T2 but I do not want to ask them a question. Please change your name. I do not know who you are. So yeah Sanja please go ahead. Thank you. So one question I have was how do you see graph in this entire mix with RAG. So graph is that what you are saying? Okay. Yeah. Like there is a lot of buzz around you know knowledge graph context graph now. So graph RAG can be in some applications especially it is great where the vector database that we have we are picking up the relevant documents based on nearness in graph RAG what happens is you go and fetch one document maybe that is stored in a vector database and then it is nearby documents actually have links to it. So a document on payments has six outgoing links and those documents will also be picked up. That is graph RAG. If you say that this is a this was a case that happened on this date and the linked cases are here. So maybe I am trying to find the root cause for an outage or there is a legal case which is linked to these six other cases or there is a page which is referring to six other pages then graph RAG is useful because instead of finding similar documents you find relevant documents. That is graph RAG in short it is useful but someone has to make those links someone has to create that graph. If you already have the graph right otherwise. Yeah. Is that making sense? Okay. Great. Prof. Yes, please go ahead. So I mean RAG, I did design one of the systems. I am just wondering you talked about Pinecone vector database etc but did not mention about Google file search which is almost ready made RAG system where you can basically built in on Quadrant and do the search. So that was one of the questions because AI is advancing at a much faster speed and when you talk about Pinecone vector database yes they were good until about 3 months ago when Google released a Google file search the search. So this Amazon also has something called vectors S3 vectors. So you can try that also. Yeah. Go ahead. Yeah. One more. I just want to respond to one of the earlier questions. Where obviously we all are worried about whenever there is a question of AI hallucination is one thing which we operate off. Okay. So to my RAG I have added one more layer at the end of it. Asking ChatGPT saying or it could be any LLM for that matter. So once I have the results again limiting results about 250 to maybe max 500 and dump it in ChatGPT saying that now please evaluate this results as good bad ugly and about I would say about 5 to 10 percent of the results sometimes just are not so good. So that is one more way of refining your own RAG system at a next layer. This is just as I said my personal experience I am sharing with that we do not need to be bogged down by the fact no matter what you said exactly right the Gaurav hallucination is the inherent property if you work with LLM you be prepared for hallucination but What in the world you thought that this should be a part of my search. Okay. But yeah that is kind of you know experience definitely helps. So that is one I love your content. I am also using the parallel injection. In fact any take on parallel injection how many what do you say how many streams you can do easily without impacting because it is going to cost you money no doubt but it is going to speed up your vectorization or maybe say injection. Yes. What is the max number? Yeah. This is something which is really interesting because a lot of companies have a lot of documents which they want to chunk and then start providing to users. Notion came up with a very interesting blog and I can share that with all of you. Sure that would be great. Yeah. In the past two years and I will also try to share this in the email along with the other relevant links for this but Notion in the past two years has been improving that vector search and so it is mostly around how do I make it really really fast and really really cheap at the same time. So I think one of the things that they found useful is the thing that you mentioned Proful is ingestion ingestion earlier used to be really slow for them they had about a few hundred workspaces that they could ingest And later on they moved to if I remember correctly hundreds of thousands. So yeah and they were quickly able to roll out their features which had the vector database requiring a vector database to all their users. So some of the ideas are really good and they are around chunking they are around embeddings. So yeah. And I want to thank No, I want to thank many of members who are basically responding. I mean one of the basic misconception people have is that RAG is MCP not true and you also clarified that. So you know very I would say high level class is what we have today and I did I did miss initial part. I do believe recordings will be available on Maven platform at some point of a time. I think so. Yes. And I think we will also be having an email sent out and everyone can you can see the recordings. Yeah. I mean again one of the question was regarding money and one I mean I know learning AI is not cheap number one. Number two, treat this as an investment because for example, the project which I am working on perhaps would fetch me 25000 dollars. Okay. So once you enrich yourself with all the knowledge you can you know get it in any not necessarily over here at Maven also but anywhere else just go for it. Right now I mean I I saw that but there is a schedule conflict for me. otherwise I would have said that okay I will go for it okay yes because learning should be you put yourself ahead of the world by learning what you are learning and this is even even within AI generative AI sector of facility you are learning RAG which is again top 10 percent of the AI journalist would do so you know sometimes yes getting it cheaper is good but getting a better knowledge is not going to be free. All right. So and again I am not promoting me. Okay. Thank you. I am sharing my personal experience. Yeah. Extremely good points. Firstly the the points that you brought up around RAG and also around getting you know your family aligned with the the timings because it is possible that not it is a 10 week commitment which is really long. So do not just go there and book the seat right now. You can register but ask your loved ones whether it is fine to actually take 10 weeks week weekends actually. So the last time we had this it was for 16 weeks and a lot of people missed out on a lot of dates with their with their wives or with their husbands. So this is no I know this is it is a big I am assuming that recordings will be available correct Gaurav. Yes yes the recordings will be available and we also answer queries offline I I mean online on the messenger. Yes of course of course. And last request if you can share with everyone your email address where or something where we can reach you in directly that would help many of people who are not decisive about what they want to do. Maybe they can you know connect with you. Yeah. If that can help. Yes, absolutely. So after this session we will be sharing the recording and relevant links. Notion is a good one. I think there is a few others. Uber has agentic RAG excellent blog again. So we will be sharing those links with you and the email which is being used for sharing you can reply to it. So I am right there. All right. Thanks Gaurav. Excellent class. I am going to go over the recording. Thanks a lot. Initially I was not going to ask but I said no might as well just you know if it can help people why not. It is very nice that to speak to you. Thank you. Thanks. Gir Sha Kumar, please go ahead. Yeah, this is a follow-up question. I think like we talked about MCP and RAG. I just have this thing. See what I understood is what is RAG is like your LLM does not have enough context. So you are retrieving additional context and MCP is a way to retrieve additional context maybe by talking to some system which has the relevant context. No, MCP is like this. Think about it this way. Girish, you have some context which are stored in your company documents or maybe even an external server also. That is possible. But if I need to book a flight, this is not about context, it is about capability. So MCP exposes capabilities of external systems to your system or even internal systems can use MCP. But if there is any action to be performed then it cannot happen through reading. It has to happen through a tool. So MCP is for tool calls, tool discovery. RAG is for context discovery information capability information. Is this making sense? Yeah, it makes sense but it does not. The question I have in mind is let is okay let is say I am building some something like a like observability platform or something, right? there is a lot of continuous data flowing through and you want to actually query the latest segment of data last 10 minutes it may not be there in your knowledge base or anything so you use an MCP and there is most likely an internal system which is going to be querying me and it is looking for information. It is not looking for making changes to the real world. That is fine. Okay. Bhaba. Yes, please go ahead. Subash just a minute. Sorry. Hey thanks Gaurav. So my question is on the encoding part like how how does the encoder know that when to take the token to token level matching or when to get the chunks. So how how does that happen? It never knows when it is going to be fetching from the vector database. It is going to be using the vector database algorithm hierarchical small world or inverted file. But once it has fetched it, once the vector database is job is done, like oh here is the chunks, my job is done. Now that is when your application is going to use a reranker which basically takes two two text. Okay, one text of the document, one text of the user query and runs it through an encoder gets a score. So yeah, is that making sense? Yeah. Yeah, it makes sense. So it is our job to like how we write the encoder to everything that you see here except the let me show that architecture again. Everything that you see here no I think I missed it. All the yellow orange stuff is you only the LLM is out of your hands. Everything else is you. Yeah. Okay. The only thing is it will take more tokens like if you do token to token level matching right like it will cost you tokens it will not because when you are doing token to token matching you are doing it locally so the score that you will get is going to be local is going to cost you yeah. Got it got it all right thanks thanks guys. Thanks Subash yes please go ahead. Hey hi. I have kind of an orchestration question. So can we able to create a RAG architecture where based on the intent from the query by the users like the query is simple so I do not really need to call the RAG or if it is a bit of a complex query then I need to do query rewriting or if it is much more complex where I have to do query ranking so is it something at Not at the runtime. Even agents let is say there is a agentic loop that you are running. Agents are a lot more flexible because they do not try to answer the user is query in one shot. They try to move towards a goal but they also try to do more complex things. That is why. So in short, yeah, parts of this are static. Like the parts of you choosing to have a reranker, parts of you choosing to have a rewriter, that is static. That is not going to change in real time. Okay. Thanks. Okay, folks. Amazing. Thank you for the amazing questions. It is Thank you for you know, coming here on a Saturday. And I look forward to seeing you again. I will be sharing the email with all of you regarding the the presentation the relevant links I think instead of the presentation slides also the recording. So I look forward to seeing you soon. I think in the next I mean two weeks later we will probably have another session. This has gone really well. So Maven is doing really well. Thank you. Thank you everyone for